# -Implementing-Search-Nearby-feature-of-google-maps
1    Motivation 
We assume that you have used the ‘search nearby’ feature of Google maps to search for restaurants closeto  you.   (Use  it  and  party  with  your  friends  over  the  upcoming  weekend.)   How  should  Google  store  thelocations of restaurants so that it can answer such queries fast?  A na ̈ıve idea is use a list and, given a query,scan the list and return the subset of nearby restaurants.  This requires timeO(n) on a list ofnlocations.How can we speed this up in practice?  Note that the list of restaurants remains fairly unchanged over time,while ‘search nearby’ queries are much more frequent.  Therefore, it makes sense to pre-process the list ofrestaurants and create an appropriate data structure that enables processing ‘search nearby’ queries muchfaster  than  a  brute-force  search  (assuming  the  number  of  “nearby”  restaurants  is  much  smaller  than  thetotal number of restaurants, which is typically the case).


2    Problem StatementTheℓ∞-distance between two points –p1= (x1, y1) andp2= (x2, y2), denoted by∥p1−p2∥∞, is defined asmax(|x1−x2|,|y1−y2|).  Given a listSofndata points inR2, a query pointq∈R2, and a non-negativenumberd, we wish to find the set{p∈S| ∥p−q∥∞≤d}, the set of all points inSthat are at most anℓ∞-distancedaway from the pointq.  You are required to design and program an appropriate data structure,which we callPointDatabase, to store a set of data points that admits the following.1.  An algorithm which, given a listSof data points, outputs an objectR(S) ofPointDatabasewhich isa “representation” ofS.2.  An  algorithm  which,  given  the  objectR(S)  ofPointDatabase,  a  query  pointq,  and  a  distanced,outputs the set{p∈S|∥p−q∥∞≤d}.More specifically, your task is to implement a Python classPointDatabasewith the following methods.•init(self, pointlist):  A constructor which, given a listpointlistof pairs of numbers, createsan  object  ofPointDatabase.   This  method  must  run  in  timeO(nlogn),  wherenis  the  number  ofpoints inpointlist.•searchNearby(self, q, d):  An accessor method which, given a pointqand distanced, returns thelist of all points, in the set thatselfrepresents, that are atℓ∞-distance at mostdfromq(arrangedin an arbitrary order).  This method must run in timeO(m+ log2n), wherenis the cardinality of theset of points thatselfrepresents, andmis the number of points returned.For simplicity, you may assume the following.1.  The coordinates of all points involved are integers (thus, avoiding floats and the resulting errors).2.  In the listpointlistfrom which aPointDatabaseobject is constructed, no two data points have thesamex-coordinate, and no two data points have the samey-coordinate.3.  No data point is atℓ∞-distance exactlydfrom the query pointq.
